{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1025\fnil Teletext;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2079\fnil JackCondensed;}{\f2264\fnil JackExtraCond;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f2698\fnil JackInput;}{\f2999\fnil eWorld Tight;}{\f3061\fnil JackRoman;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9840\fnil Espy Sans;}{\f9842\fnil Espy Sans Bold;}{\f10241\fnil QuickType Mono;}{\f10386\fnil QuickType Pi;}{\f10486\fnil QuickType;}{\f10496\fnil QuickType Condensed;}{\f10840\fnil Klang MT;}{\f10890\fnil Script MT Bold;}{\f10897\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f10909\fnil New Berolina MT;}{\f10957\fnil Bodoni MT Ultra Bold;}{\f10967\fnil Arial MT Condensed Light;}{\f11132\fnil InsigniaLQmono;}{\f11133\fnil InsigniaLQprop;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14592\fnil OCR-A;}{\f15011\fnil Gill Sans Condensed Bold;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\colsx0\endnhere \pard\plain \qc {\b\f3\fs36 TACTICAL FORCE\par ALIENS AND SPECIALS}{\b\f3\fs36 \par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \par The aliens portion of the demo disk shows the diversity and uniqueness of the aliens and robots that can be confronted in battle.  Some of the lesser pictures will probably be cut for the final product, though.  Hit the escape key to exit the aliens demo or hit any other key to view the next picture.\par \par The specials part of the demo disk first adds a postscript to the aliens demo by showing four screens of top views for some of the aliens.  Many of these top views also have a few frames of animation for when the alien is hit or dies, etc. in battle.  As before, the escape key exits, any other key shows the next picture.\par \par The specials demo then gives a taste of the art work and types of specials found throughout the TRACC station.  Of course, these screens are still in raw form so there is still "junk" around the edges of some of them.\par \par The next two frames show a robot and alien respectively whose futures are yet to be decided.  They will either become part of specials or serve as stand-ins for some of the other aliens.\par \par The weapons locker shown open in one screen and cut-away in the next will animate open when the player figures out how to fool the identification scanner.\par \par The acid you see dripping through the ceiling in this next picture occurs one shell below an area where some repair unit robots are working.  The acid has the same effect on a character's equipment as it does on those ceiling panels.\par \par Frozen aliens can thaw very quickly when overly curious explorers play with unknown controls.\par \par The environment suit in this picture may seem harmless but the next screen shows that a player just never knows what type of alien an environment suit is suited for.  They then will have a very short amount of time to select from a list of possible options to save the suffocating group member.\par \par The next three screens show animation frames from an invisible force field that a juicer in the group must overload in order to get past it, as the fourth screen partially shows.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par These}{\f3\fs20  next}{\f3\fs20  pictures show }{\f3\fs20 three}{\f3\fs20  frames of a special where the group can tap into the TRACC station's power system to re-energize themselves.  There of two of these in the station, }{\f3\fs20 one of which is}{\f3\fs20  defective.  The }{\f3\fs20 Council}{\f3\fs20  logs warn of this.}{\f3\fs20 \par \par This screen shows a two-headed green guy that will be sending a player's group on a quest to assassinate the alien in the next picture.  It certainly is tough to know who to trust.\par \par The prisoner in cell level 4 is kept in by the animated "bars" that you get a hint of in the lower left corner of the cell door.  After the player figures out how decode the security lock, the prisoner gives a piece of information vital to solving the game.}{\f3\fs20 \par \par }{\f3\fs20 Here's King Ruuik who was described in an earlier document.  He provides you with the code for the green nets found on the first shell.  He only requires a bit of a bribe.\par \par }{\f3\fs20 As mentioned in the council logs, there are five element keys that the group must find to open the element door entrance of the core.}{\f3\fs20   This picture}{\f3\fs20  shows the crystal element key on its pedestal and the next picture shows the animation sequence that is used to make the two rings look like they are rotating around each other.}{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 The following screen}{\f3\fs20  shows the sand element key and the }{\f3\fs20 screen after that}{\f3\fs20  shows the beams that will be}{\f3\fs20  animated}{\f3\fs20  rotating around it.}{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \par The next }{\f3\fs20 picture}{\f3\fs20  show}{\f3\fs20 s}{\f3\fs20  }{\f3\fs20 a}{\f3\fs20  robot}{\f3\fs20  that guards one of the element keys.  It }{\f3\fs20 will be shown pressing the button on his laser sword and}{\f3\fs20  its}{\f3\fs20  beam }{\f3\fs20 coming on just before battle.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par The}{\f3\fs20  green}{\f3\fs20  alien in the next picture doesn't guard an element key that sits on a pedestal but actually carries it on him.  This picture shows two}{\f3\fs20  of several}{\f3\fs20  frames of}{\f3\fs20  the animation of}{\f3\fs20  his hand closing around the key.\par \par }{\f3\fs20 The next three pictures show an alien that}{\f3\fs20  is found at the very entrance to the core and is used to make sure that the group is strong enough to be able to complete the game.  This is the last combat the player will have before entering the core.  He must be battled three times, with each picture showing the increasing amount of damage that he has sustained.\par \par The next two pictures show the element door with and without the element keys in it.  The door, which will be clipped to the shape of a tunnel, will be animated open}{\f3\fs20  when the player has placed all of the keys in it}{\f3\fs20 .\par \par When shutting down the core computer and reprogramming it, the animation of the groups cybernate pushing buttons and looking at the core}{\f3\fs20 -}{\f3\fs20 link}{\f3\fs20  }{\f3\fs20 (next }{\f3\fs20 paragraph}{\f3\fs20 ) on his wrist is shown.  The cybernate moves his legs, head, arms and hands.\par \par The core-link is worn on the wrist of the cybernate and is used as a link to the core computer.  Once the core computer has been repaired, it uses this link to }{\f3\fs20 communicate}{\f3\fs20  with the player.  }{\f3\fs20 The cybernate's}{\f3\fs20  finger}{\f3\fs20  shown in the next picture is animated}{\f3\fs20  pushing buttons on the core-link.\par \par }{\f3\fs20 The next two screens show a window and some type of space ship on the other side of that window.  }{\f3\fs20 At this point, they don't know what it's there for}{\f3\fs20  but the end of the game is near}{\f3\fs20 .\par \par On the last level of the core, the group finds }{\f3\fs20 some}{\f3\fs20  space suits.  Unfortunately, there }{\f3\fs20 aren't enough for everyone in the group}{\f3\fs20 .  Somebody has to stay behind.  The core computer tells them to put them on (this may make the members nervous after their}{\f3\fs20  earlier}{\f3\fs20  experience with the environment suit).\par \par The group then finds the escape pod (the mysterious space craft that they saw earlier), and the last four pictures show part of the escape sequence from the vantage point of one of the group members looking out from his space suit.\par \par }}