{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1025\fnil Teletext;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2079\fnil JackCondensed;}{\f2264\fnil JackExtraCond;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f2698\fnil JackInput;}{\f2999\fnil eWorld Tight;}{\f3061\fnil JackRoman;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9840\fnil Espy Sans;}{\f9842\fnil Espy Sans Bold;}{\f10241\fnil QuickType Mono;}{\f10386\fnil QuickType Pi;}{\f10486\fnil QuickType;}{\f10496\fnil QuickType Condensed;}{\f10840\fnil Klang MT;}{\f10890\fnil Script MT Bold;}{\f10897\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f10909\fnil New Berolina MT;}{\f10957\fnil Bodoni MT Ultra Bold;}{\f10967\fnil Arial MT Condensed Light;}{\f11132\fnil InsigniaLQmono;}{\f11133\fnil InsigniaLQprop;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14592\fnil OCR-A;}{\f15011\fnil Gill Sans Condensed Bold;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\colsx0\endnhere \pard\plain \par \pard \qc {\b\f3\fs36 TACTICAL FORCE\par GENERAL NOTES\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \par \tab You may want to skim through the manual first.  It}{\f3\fs20  provides an overview of the game,}{\f3\fs20  tells about the races and professions of the game system, as well as describing in more detail the things covered in the video.  Of course, this document is still in very rough form, with notes to ourselves in italics and parentheses sprinkled throughout.  It should, however, give you a feel for what the Tactical Force is all ab}{\f3\fs20 out.}{\f3\fs20 \par \tab The log entries show how we will present part of the story to the player}{\f3\fs20 , and complement the other specials that he or she will come across}{\f3\fs20 .}{\f3\fs20   They too are still in rough draft form.\par \tab The Aliens and Specials demo disk, with its accompanying written descriptions, gives a sampling of (surprise) aliens and specials found throughout the game.  This is not meant to be a comprehensive demo, but rather to show you the general direction we are taking the specials in and their level of quality.  \par \tab And finally, the Tactical Force game disk and maps will show you the genuine article.  The maps are in the process of being trimmed down in size so the finished TRACC station will only have four shells.  Below are some other miscellaneous notes that apply to the copy of the game disks you have received.}{\f3\fs20 \par \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The disks sent are not organized in the same way as they will be in the finished product.  The boot disk is temporary, with side M1 eventually becoming the boot side.  Sides T2 and F2 were not included because they are just empty tunnels right no}{\f3\fs20 w.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The disks are hard-coded for two drives.  The game will support one or two drives but the}{\f3\fs20  this}{\f3\fs20  check is part of the boot proces}{\f3\fs20 s that isn't hooked in yet.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  Colored floors in Mothership are different from those shown in video tape.  They are just an experiment in making the tunnel}{\f3\fs20 s look less like line drawings.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The halls marked in orange on the maps make up the destination area of the Tesserport and you will land r}{\f3\fs20 andomly somewhere in that area.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The code for the green barrier on Shell 1 is 'GN-28'.  }{\f3\fs20 You'll know it when you see it.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The elevators marked in green on the maps can be use}{\f3\fs20 d to go between shells 1 and 2.\par \par \bullet  The green net and elevators are the only specials that are actually hooked into this version of the game, and is why the specials/aliens demo disk was provided.  However, in some areas, the program will still try to read in some as yet non-existent specials from the disk.  It shouldn't happen too often but at least you will know what's going on if is does.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  The aliens in the combat routine all fight the same right now.  The }{\f3\fs20 numbers haven't been gauged yet and therefore it is too easy to kill aliens with some weapons and too difficult with others.}{\f3\fs20 \par \par }{\f3\fs20 \par \par \par }{\f3\fs20\ul Keys you need to know}{\f3\fs20\ul :}{\f3\fs20\ul \par }{\f3\fs20 \par \tab - Directional keys are any combination of\par \tab \tab - UP\tab \tab 'A', 'I', or up-arrow\par \tab \tab - DOWN\tab 'Z', 'M', or down-arrow\par \tab \tab - LEFT\tab 'J' or left-arrow\par \tab \tab - RIGHT\tab 'K' or right-arrow\par \tab - SPACE BAR and RETURN are used to make a selection\par \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  To get into battle at will in the TRACC station, hold down the }{\f3\fs20 open-apple key and take a step.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  To find equipment at will in the TRACC station, hold down the closed-app}{\f3\fs20 le key and take a step forward.\par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  'S' brings up group statistics in both the Mothership and TRACC station.}{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  'T' tesseracts back to the Mothership from anywhere in the tesserzone marked in orange on the map.}{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \par }{\f3\fs20 \bullet }{\f3\fs20  'R' adjusts the range of the tunnels in the station.}{\f3\fs20 \par \par \bullet  To get out of battles quickly, press escape in the narration phase of combat.}{\f3\fs20 \par }}