{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1025\fnil Teletext;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2079\fnil JackCondensed;}{\f2264\fnil JackExtraCond;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f2698\fnil JackInput;}{\f2999\fnil eWorld Tight;}{\f3061\fnil JackRoman;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9840\fnil Espy Sans;}{\f9842\fnil Espy Sans Bold;}{\f10241\fnil QuickType Mono;}{\f10386\fnil QuickType Pi;}{\f10486\fnil QuickType;}{\f10496\fnil QuickType Condensed;}{\f10840\fnil Klang MT;}{\f10890\fnil Script MT Bold;}{\f10897\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f10909\fnil New Berolina MT;}{\f10957\fnil Bodoni MT Ultra Bold;}{\f10967\fnil Arial MT Condensed Light;}{\f11132\fnil InsigniaLQmono;}{\f11133\fnil InsigniaLQprop;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14592\fnil OCR-A;}{\f15011\fnil Gill Sans Condensed Bold;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s242 \sbasedon0\snext0 page number;}{\s243\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\s244\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext244 header;}{\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\colsx0\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qc\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 {\f3 \'a9 1988 Sean Callahan and Richard Nielsen. All rights reserved.\par }{\f3 \chpgn }{\f3 \par }}\pard\plain \qc {\b\f3\fs48 TACTICAL FORCE\par }{\f3\fs28 The Alliance of Five Planets\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \par \tab It is the future.  The Human race has ventured far out into space and discovered a variety of intelligent life forms, both friendly and hostile.  They have formed trade pacts and alliances with the races of six other planets, culminating in the formation of The Council of Seven.  This council consisted of one elected representative from each of the seven races who together served as the leaders of The Tactical Force Alliance.  Through this alliance, the races were able to pool their strength to defend against the increasingly frequent attacks by the very hostile Markabian race, populating several planets in the 24-00 sector.  But while the strength of the Markabians grew because of their numbers and proximity to each other, the strength of The Tactical Force stagnated because of the shear distances and seven-way language barrier between the member races.\par \tab The Tactical Force was still able to defend itself from the Markabians, but this advantage was slipping.  Fragmented intelligence reports told of powerful new weapons the Markabians were developing, one of which was rumored to focus the energy of a star and literally burn off the surface of a planet.  Many of these reports were dismissed as exaggerations and false information, but nonetheless made the need for a solution seem all the more critical.\par \tab For this reason, The Council of Seven began to organize work on an interstellar communication and translation space station of such versatility and speed as to effectively eliminate these distance and communication problems, as well as provide a way to keep a closer watch on the Markabians.\par \tab The TRAnslation and Communication Computer, or TRACC station as it came to be known as, progressed on schedule, and finally neared completion.\par \tab When the unveiling day finally arrived, the excitement of the people of all races was at fever pitch as The Council of Seven prepared to do the first seven-way, instantaneous, interplanetary communication with simultaneous translation.  With each member of The Council on their home world, the TRACC station began its work and all the people saw and heard their leader speak with the other Council members in their native tongues.\par \tab But just as the celebrating began, the transmission from Eltanin suddenly stopped.  After a few moments, all transmissions were replaced with the voice of a Markabian warrior.  The viewers' shock, as the Markabian thanked The Council of Seven for providing the means for their demonstration of power, turned to horror as they saw Adharan planet destroyed by a huge, undescribable weapon.  But as the voice of the Markabian tried to threaten the other five races into surrendering, this weapon mysteriously exploded.  The voice abruptly stopped and the TRACC station signal went dead.\par \tab The remaining Council members, stunned by the events that had transpired, met secretly aboard the Tactical Force star cruiser Mothership to discuss the present situation.  It is there they launched their mission into the silent TRACC Station, trying to set right the damage they felt responsible for.  The Council of Five entered the Station but never returned.\par \tab The fate of The Council remains unknown while the TRACC station continues its silence.  Preliminary explorations indicate that it has become infested with all forms of alien life, source unknown.  Without the the TRACC station functioning to strengthen The Tactical Force, each race will surely be crushed by the Markabians, one by one.\par \par \par \par \tab Tactical Force is the futuristic fantasy role-playing game that breaks away from Dungeons-and-Dragons conventions by bringing you far from the pseudo medieval time period of other FRPG's to a future universe full of strange alien races and entirely new professions.  Gone are the demons, giants and killer rodents of yesterday.  With a superior combat system that caters to the beginning and advanced player alike, your characters will use powerful weapons and other sophisticated equipment to battle aliens with skills that mages could only dream of having.  With animation and a focus on realism throughout, you'll think that your characters are really alive, to the point of getting a lump in your throat if they die.  The universe of the Tactical Force will provide a wide variety of new challenges and new experiences from beginning to end, all presented with a level of realism and technical expertise that few games achieve.\par \par \tab At this time, please watch the accompanying video tape demonstration which the remainder of this document makes references to.  Also note that the taping process lowers picture quality.\par \par \tab < View video tape >\par \par \tab Now that you have viewed the video tape, the calibre of the Tactical Force game system should be obvious.  It should also be pointed out that the tape was created on a stock Apple II+ with 64K RAM, no RAM disk or speed-up card, and with no disk access delays edited out.\par \tab The following sections describe facets of TF that set it apart from other FRPG's, starting the more visible features and then leading into aspects that aren't readily apparent or aren't covered on the video tape.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri7200\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 ANIMATION\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab One of the most obvious aspects of TF is its use of animation.  Simple animations such as the rotating input cursor, the bubbles on Trepr Lelvk's "coffee" cup and the talking Arsenal proprietor serve as eye-catchers to pull the prospective player into the game by making them want to see more.  This gives us the chance to get them hooked on the rest of the fantasy, as well as adding to the overall atmosphere of TF and making the attention to detail immediately evident.\par \tab While simple animation is used throughout TF, complex animation is used at critical points in the game.  For instance, when the player's entire group dies, he or she sees the dead group animation sequence that you saw near the end of the video tape.  This serves to reinforce the importance of the situation.  Complex animation is also used frequently in the grand finale of the game for the very same reasons.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri6660\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 USER INTERFACE\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab The user interface is an important but often overlooked part of FRPG's.  The same transparent and unobtrusive user interface has been applied consistently throughout TF.  In addition to using directional keys to move through tunnels, these same keys are used to move an arrow between menu choices and make selections, as well as for "entering" numbers (e.g. In the Energy Distribution Center).  The player rarely has to take his or her hands off the directional keys which makes the interface between player and characters transparent, even for players that don't know the keyboard very well.  It lets the player focus on }{\i\f3\fs20 what}{\f3\fs20  he wants to do, not on }{\i\f3\fs20 how}{\f3\fs20  to tell the computer to do it and therefore stays out of the way of the fantasy as much as possible.\par \tab Other factors contribute to the usefulness of TF's interface as well.  Screens are organized in a manner that is pleasing to look at while presenting information in a clear and concise way.  Also, disk delays are kept to an absolute minimum so as not to break the rhythm of the game and detract from the fantasy.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri4230\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 REALISM / ATTACHMENT TO CHARACTERS\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab Realism is the underlying reason for everything we have done with TF, plain and simple.  We have made sure that everything "makes sense" so that all parts of the game will keep the player in the fantasy, starting with the little things.  The player doesn't have to pretend they saw something or didn't see something.  For example, instead of getting some text that says "A sign on the door reads...", the player will actually see a sign on a door.  If there is a stair case going up, they will see that stair case, not a blank hallway and some text telling them about it.\par \tab This attention to realism carries over into the way that the player's characters are handled, as well.  Because we want players to feel as much emotion for and attachment to their characters as possible, the game treats characters the way living, breathing people would be.  They were alive before joining the TF and therefore are not "created" or "rolled" but merely relay their vital statistics to the Enrollment Computer.  Nor are characters "deleted", but rather leave the TF and return home via shuttle.\par \tab Characters are also treated more realistically and "humanly" in that death is not trivialized.  If a character dies, although it is possible to "bring him back" using the superior medical technology of the future, it is not as simple as shutting off the machine or reverting to a previously saved game.  In fact, the player is penalized for such behavior.  This forces the player to have less of a cavalier attitude towards the death of his characters and hopefully gives him a sense of respect for them.  If the game doesn't treat characters as being real, neither will the player.\par \tab Once a player/character relationship has been developed, some intense situations can be created.  As an example, if a character is dying a gradual death (e.g. an illness is killing him) the physician in the group would notify the player that there was nothing more that could be done.  The player then would see an animated display of the character's pulse, breathing, and other vital signs gradually slow and finally stop.  This gives the same drama as do movies and television shows set in hospitals where the steady beep of the patient's pulse on the EKG gives way to the flat line and solid tone of death.  Obviously, this will only be effective if the player has indeed formed a strong bond to his characters.\par \tab Realism and character attachment feed on each other.  Realism increases the attachment the player feels to his characters which makes the game seem more realistic, and so on, making for a more intense, realistic and satisfying experience.  And providing that is one of the things that makes TF the quality game that it is.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri6660\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 COMBAT SYSTEM\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab The unique combat system employed by TF is another aspect that sets is apart from other games.  Battles consist of rounds with each round consisting of 72 time units.  There are approximately twelve commands that can be used to create a character's battle plan, with each command taking a pre-defined number of time units to complete.  So, for instance, if a character has an upper reflex in the twenties, it takes them 18 time units to swing or shoot once, they can do any combination of these commands 4 times per round.  As their reflexes improve, it takes less and less time to execute a command and therefore they can complete more commands per round.\par \tab This has the desirable effect of making combat for low level characters, and thus beginning players, very forgiving.  Because there are few commands they can complete per round, they have more opportunity to compensate for errors.  But as the characters get more powerful, players have to have their battle plans more thoroughly thought out.  If they make some tactical error, more commands will have been executed before they have an opportunity to adjust their strategy.  The combat system isn't frustrating to the beginner and yet doesn't become boring to them as the become more advanced.\par \tab Although the complexity of combat grows as the characters grow, because of the quality of the user interface, it is consistently easy to select commands for characters.  The computer does all the work of determining which of the commands are available to the character at any given time.  It checks to see if they have enough time, the proper equipment, enough energy to complete the command and so on, and then only shows the commands that they can select.  This takes the burden off of the player and keeps them from experiencing the "Sorry, I'm afraid you can't do that" syndrome.\par \tab Once the player has created battle plans for each character, the computer selects commands for each of the aliens based on the same rules of time units and reflexes.  Then, as you saw in the video, it resolves the battle giving a textual narration as well as showing the blaster shots flying, sonic grenades exploding, and so on.  Of course, this fits in nicely with the realism aspect discussed earlier.  You don't just read about something happening, you see it happening.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri6300\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 COMBAT OPPONENTS\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab With all of the flexibility built into the combat system, it would be a waste if the player's opponents weren't challenging.  Therefore, we have built in an incredible amount sophistication into each alien type.  In addition to parameters that define the aliens' damage and shielding rating, etc., there are many more that define and control everything else about them.  There are parameters that define how susceptible they are to attacks from different weapons, what type of equipment they carry, what verbs are used to describe how they attack, if they can start characters on fire, take over their minds, and so on.\par \tab There are also many parameters that control how the alien fights.  Does it normally shoot or swing?  Does it run when all of its shots are gone or does it start to fight with its "hands"?  Does it rush to the front row to fight or does it prefer to stay in the back rows?  Does it pick on one character or spread its damage around?  How accurate are its shots?\par \tab These are only a sample of the attributes of the aliens that we can control, giving an enormous number of possible permutations to create different aliens.  This permits us to have the nearly 150 aliens that we do and still keep them from being mostly garden variety hack/slashers.  And because there are so many truly different aliens, there is no one universally best way to fight all aliens, and therefore players will be challenged from beginning to end.  The number and diversity of aliens is a very good example of the topic of the next section.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri7470\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 VARIETY\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab Variety is another important aspect of TF.  Variety in the types of aliens, their pictures and topviews, and in the ways they fight.  Variety in the different types of weapons and equipment the characters find, and in the types of specials they come across.\par \tab In creating all of this variety, however, we have been very careful to avoid just making more of the same under different names.  Although there are nearly 150 aliens, they each have their own picture and topview.  We don't use the same picture for several aliens and make the player have to pretend that they are different.\par \tab The same holds true for equipment and specials.  For example, a disintegrator isn't just a blaster that hits for more damage and has a different name.  It truly is different.  Some aliens are more susceptible to its attacks than they are to blaster attacks, some less susceptible.  A different special effect is used when an alien is killed by a disintegrator as opposed to a normal blaster.  And specials, which are discussed in the next section, are more than just mapping tricks such as one way and invisible doors, teleportation squares and rotating squares.\par \tab All of this variety, alone, makes the game more enjoyable.  But by organizing it properly, it is put to even better use by making the game build in intensity.  At the start of the game, characters use simple weapons against aliens that fight back in simple hack/slash fashion and alien pictures and topviews are small and without animation.  Also, the first level of the TRACC station is large, with specials being somewhat sparse.  But as the game progresses and the player gets farther and farther into the station, the aliens become more sophisticated fighters.  Their pictures get larger and more spectacular and their topviews get larger and become animated.  Meanwhile, the specials are getting better, more frequent and more animated, in a smaller and smaller area.\par \tab Organizing everything in this manner has an important effect.  It keeps bringing the player back for more.  If they continue to see and find something new (be it aliens, equipment, specials or what have you) more and more often, and if each new thing is a little bit better than what they've seen so far, they can't help but get excited about what new things they will come across next.  We never let the player feel like they have seen all there is to see until they have completed the game.  And even better yet, they will want to see what we have in store for them in our next game.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri7380\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 SPECIALS\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab In designing the specials for Tactical Force, we have tried to create situations that are different from any that the player may have come across in other games.  Specials that rely on the player's sense of logic and information obtained in other parts of the game, while still making sense in the context of an advanced space station.\par \tab One example of a special that tests the player's sense of logic is the Zero Gravity Gymnasium.  It was built as a recreation area for the staff of the TRACC station and, as the name implies, has no gravity.  When someone steps forward,  they continue to move forward until they hit a wall.  This gym has wall segments placed throughout it and a small room in the center that holds a data card that is vital to solving the game.  The player must discover how to navigate to the equipment room.  It's not as easy as it sounds and it challenges the player without seeming like a simple "brain teaser".  Also, it doesn't rely on information found outside of the game the way riddles tend to.\par \tab In specials where we must present the player with a situation and a list of possible actions for them to choose from, we make sure that the player has enough information to make an informed decision.  In other words, we don't give them 5 choices, of which 4 will kill them and then expected to try each one, rebooting the machine when they're wrong and then making a different choice.  They can get hints from the data cards that they find and in the log entries that the Council of Five has left in various parts of the station, but we don't make them randomly guess at what to do.\par \tab Other specials are added purely for atmosphere.  They aren't necessary in completing the quest but they make the TRACC station a more interesting place to explore.  Take, for instance, King Ruuik.  He's this purple alien with one huge eye and is probably the ousted dictator of some small country on some small planet.  He gathered up a few soldiers loyal to him and layed claim to part of one of the levels of the TRACC station.  Signs and force fields mark the borders of his "Royal Domain", in addition to his soldiers that patrol the perimiter.  And like any "good" dictator, King Ruuik will give favors in exchange for weapons.  For a few blasting rifles, he will give you the access code to the force field barriers and the password to keep his guards from attacking you.  And like any "good" dictator, you never know if he's telling you the truth or not.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri6390\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 THE GRAND FINALE\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab The grand finale of TF is the largest and most important of all of the specials and, because of this, has had the most design time spent on it.  In many FRP games, the ending consists of a battle with some form of "evil wizard".  The player, knowing this, wants to make sure he is strong enough before entering the final battle, so he builds his characters until he thinks they're ready.  But what usually happens is that the player is too ready and ends up squashing the villain in a lop-sided battle.  This is very anti-climatic so we've avoided the "evil wizard battle" ending altogether.\par \tab First, the player's group is checked to make sure that they have all of the necessary equipment and professions and that they are able to defeat aliens of a certain level in combat.  If they meet these requirements, they are allowed to enter the core of the TRACC station.  At this point there will no longer be any combat, but the player is unaware of that fact.  So, for instance, when the group has to sacrifice its robot in order to get past some obstacle, the player will be thinking "Oh no, there goes my robot!  I'm gonna get slaughtered in the next battle."  But that next battle never comes.  We try to take the characters, and therefore the player, as close to the brink without letting them fall, while never letting them know that.  However, if they do suspect that they can't die and try to test their theory by doing something irrational, they will indeed die.\par \tab Another example of this "to the brink" philosophy is in an area in the core of the station where the computer there has shut down the life support systems.  The player must run though dark tunnels without any oxygen while getting messages saying "We can't survive much longer without air!"  But what the player doesn't realize is that as long as he trying to get through this area, he will always succeed "just in the nick of time".  On the other hand, if the player decides to see what happens if he just stands there for a while, his characters will suffocate before his eyes.\par \tab We want to make sure that the when the player is completing the game, they will feel the same type of excitement that they would feel at the end of an Indiana Jones movie.  The climax of our game will be the high point that it should be, making the player feel that it was worth all of the time and effort to complete.\par \par \par }\pard \qc\ri6840\box\brdrsh\brdrs \brdrbtw\brdrs {\f3\fs20 IN CONCLUSION\par }\pard {\f3\fs20 \par \tab Tactical Force\'aa was created as the game the we have always wanted to play.  We started with the things we liked in other games, discarded what we didn't like and added what we thought the others were missing.  And, although we have taken its creation very seriously and have put a considerable amount of thought into how it works, our primary goal was to create a game that is fun and entertaining, and we think we have succeeded.\par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par TECHNICAL INFORMATION\par \par - Apple II series 64K (additional 64K will be used as a RAM disk)\par - 100% 6502 assembly language\par - 5 sides of three 5.25" disks or one 3.5" disk\par \par \par DEVELOPMENT TIME REMAINING\par \par \tab TF has been a very large and time consuming project but is within about six full-time months of completion.  The game system, which consists of the Mothership areas, "Camping", and combat system, has one month of finishing touches left.  The game scenario, including all of the maps, specials, "puzzles", textual descriptions, grand finale and art work will also be wrapped-up in that month.  The remaining five months will be spent doing the programming for the specials and calibrating the game (i.e. adjusting alien statistics versus character statistics, what equipment is found on which aliens, etc.)  Because the game will be completed from the beginning and working towards the end, play-testing can overlap the tail end of the development.  The game system itself has been stable for quite some time and therefore shouldn't require a large amount of debugging time.  The documentation is currently in rough draft form.\par \tab We would consider doing the IBM, Macintosh, or possibly Apple IIgs versions but would probably want someone else to do the ports to the C64/128, Amiga and Atari ST, as well as any other machines.\par \par \par ABOUT THE DESIGNERS\par \par \tab In addition to writing and co-designing Tactical Force, Sean Callahan is a full-time programmer supervisor for Springboard Software, Inc. and has been programming since he was 11.  He has written several programs for Springboard including the majority of Certificate Maker IIe, the graphics mode of Springboard Publisher IIe and other miscellaneous parts of it, the animated bouncing Springboard logo, as well as doing ports of other products.  He is also a quick study of computer systems and is currently doing custom animation work on the Macintosh II and SE in 68000 assembly and C.\par \tab Richard Nielsen has created the art work seen in Tactical Force, as well as bringing a creative science fiction mind to its co-design.  He works for Springboard Software, Inc. as a contract artist.  His work for them can be seen in their Works Of Art packages, Laser Font package and in the fonts of Springboard Publisher.\par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par }}